# Auto Song Player by Face Emotion Analysis.

## This is my Thesis Project.

### Abstract
Music has the power to be a medicine and a medium to inspire, rejuvenate and help oneself commit to a task at hand. To enjoy a seamless musical experience has been in focus from the invention of the Microphone itself. However, it is still a struggle in this Modern age of Technology. Hence, using the Top Edge technologies available to us at our fingertips to better the experience and facilitate a new way of enhancing this feeling with complex Recurrent Neural Networks and Machine Learning does seem to be a requirement than a privilege.
To fill in this requirement is my overall objective, to change the way we experience music with every change in our emotion. Using a complex CNN network and training the model using a modified VGG16 and training was carried out on over 10 thousand images and after 75 epochs and 13 hours an acceptable accuracy of 67% was achieved. With the introduction to Multithreading live image detection and detection of most dominant emotions were achieved and this information was then fed in a simple Machine Learning Model namely Gausian Naive Based to predict and recommend the top 10 songs for the two strongest feelings displayed by the user. For the last piece in this project I have used the opensource SoundCloud where the songs are fed in via api calls to SoundCloud via the webdrivers.
Finally with over 67% accuracy in Facial Recognition using a modified version of VGG16 and over 78% of accuracy in recommending the songs according to the users Two dominant emotions and feeding these songs into the SounCloud and playing them i have created a complete Music Player that plays songs based on the users emotion and tries to elevate it to the best possible condition over time.

### Output
The final output of this project is a webpage namely sound-cloud an Artist First Application that featured over 10 thousand plus artists independent and under labels. As it is an Open Source and free applications i hinder no copyrights or cause any damage to any individuals intellectual property. The use of this application is currently designed for a laptop with internet connection however, the SoundCloud application is available on Android and iOS mobile devices too. This gives a future scope to this project of Integrating this project to these Applications and utilizing their search engines to enhance ones experience and also grow my own database.